.TH LSSEQ 1 "April 2026" "lsseq" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lsseq \- list directory contents while condensing image sequences

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsseq
.RI [ OPTION ]... " [FILE]..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsseq
lists directory contents similar to
.BR ls (1),
but condenses image sequences into a single entry.

Filenames that are part of image sequences are assumed to be of the form:
.PP
    <descriptiveName>.<frameNum>.<imgExtension>
.PP
where <imgExtension> is drawn from a default list of image extensions
(displayed with
.BR --img-ext )
or from the environment variable
.B LSSEQ_IMAGE_EXTENSION,
which should contain a colon-separated list.

.PP
Output consists of all non-image-sequence files followed by detected
image sequences.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B FILE
File names.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Miscellaneous Options
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show program version and exit.
.TP
.BR --silent ", " --quiet
Suppress error and warning messages.
.TP
.B --
End of options.
All following arguments are treated as positional.

.SS Sequence Interpretation
.TP
.B --split-sequence
Split sequences with missing frames into multiple sequences.
.TP
.B --no-split-sequence
Treat all frames with the same name as one sequence (default).
.TP
.BR -s ", " --strict-num-separator
Require '.' as separator between name and frame number (default).
.TP
.BR -l ", " --loose-num-separator
Allow '_' as an additional separator.

.SS Display of Error Frames
.TP
.BR -m ", " --show-missing
Show missing frames (default).
.TP
.BR -M ", " --skip-missing
Do not show missing frames.
.TP
.BR -z ", " --show-zero
Show zero-length frames (default).
.TP
.BR -Z ", " --skip-zero
Do not show zero-length frames.
.TP
.BR -b ", " --show-bad-frames
Show potentially bad frames.
.TP
.BR -B ", " --skip-bad-frames
Do not show bad frames (default).
.TP
.BI --good-frame-min-size " BYTES"
Minimum size for a valid frame (default: 512).
.TP
.B --show-bad-padding
Report incorrectly padded frame numbers (default).
.TP
.B --skip-bad-padding
Do not report padding issues.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --combine-lists
Combine all error lists.
.TP
.B --no-combine-lists
Do not combine error lists (default).
.TP
.BR -n ", " --no-error-lists
Suppress all error lists.

.SS Sequence Category Filters
.TP
.BR -i ", " --img-ext
List recognized file extensions and exit.
.TP
.B --list-all-files
List sequences and regular files (default).
.TP
.BR -o ", " --only-sequences
List only sequences.
.TP
.BR -O ", " --only-images
List only image sequences.
.TP
.B --not-images
Exclude images from sequences.
.TP
.B --only-movies
List only movie sequences.
.TP
.B --not-movies
Exclude movies from sequences.
.TP
.B --only-caches
List only cache sequences.
.TP
.B --not-caches
Exclude caches from sequences.

.SS Sequence Display Modifiers
.TP
.BI -f ", " --format " FORMAT"
Output format (native, nuke, rv, shake, glob, mplay, houdini).
.TP
.BR -p ", " --prepend-path-abs
Prepend absolute paths; implies --only-sequences.
.TP
.BR -P ", " --prepend-path-rel
Prepend relative paths; implies --only-sequences.
.TP
.BR -e ", " --extremes
Show only first and last frame; implies multiple options.

.SS Sorting and Display
.TP
.BR -R ", " --recursive
Recurse into subdirectories.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --reverse
Reverse sort order.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --sort-by-time
Sort by modification time.
.TP
.BI --time " FRAME_AGE"
Frame selection for time comparison (oldest, median, newest).
.TP
.BR -G ", " --global-sort-by-time
Sort sequences globally by time.
.TP
.BI --only-show " TENSE TIME"
Filter sequences by time.

.SS Symbolic Link Handling
.TP
.BR -H ", " --dereference-command-line
Follow symlinks on command line (default).
.TP
.BR -L ", " --dereference
Follow all symbolic links.
.TP
.B --no-dereference
Do not follow symbolic links.
.TP
.B --dereference-command-line-symlink-to-dir
Follow command-line symlinks to directories.
.TP
.B --dereference-symlink-to-dir
Follow all symlinks to directories.
.TP
.B --no-dereference-dir
Do not follow directory symlinks.
.TP
.B --dereference-command-line-symlink-to-file
Follow command-line symlinks to files.
.TP
.B --dereference-symlink-to-file
Follow all symlinks to files.
.TP
.B --no-dereference-file
Do not follow file symlinks.

.SS LS(1) Compatibility Options
.TP
.BR -1 ", " --single
One entry per line.
.TP
.BR -a ", " --all
Include hidden files.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --by-columns
List by columns.
.TP
.BR -x ", " --by-rows
List by rows.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --directory
List directories themselves, not contents.
.TP
.BR -F ", " --classify
Append file type indicators.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LSSEQ_IMAGE_EXTENSION
Colon-separated list of image extensions.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ls (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the James Philip Rowell. 

.SH COPYRIGHT
3-Clause BSD License

Copyright (c) 2008-2026, James Philip Rowell,
Alpha Eleven Incorporated
www.alpha-eleven.com
All rights reserved.
